---
title: OSINT
date: 2023-05-18 10:42:00 -500
categories: [cybersecurity, network security, malware]
tags: [infosec, datasecurity, osint, itsecurity, cyberdefense, internetsecurity] # TAG names should be lowercase
---

# What is OSINT?
OSINT, or Open-Source Intelligence, refers to the collection and analysis of information from publicly available sources to gain insights, gather data, and generate intelligence. It involves gathering information from sources such as websites, social media platforms, online databases, news articles, and other publicly accessible resources.

* [Where to start OSINT](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ALy5bUMUo7Q&list=PLkFsXKDkq5t_aa76FwiaR8D7uMt5MvEAb&index=3&ab_channel=DavidBombalClips)
* [How to geolocate from images and videos. Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X7E6zinrkno&list=PL423I_gHbWUUOs09899rex4t2l5py9YIk&index=2&ab_channel=TheOSINTCuriousProject)
* [How to geolocate from images and videos. Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=roH2fQDSo-w&list=PL423I_gHbWUUOs09899rex4t2l5py9YIk&index=1&ab_channel=TheOSINTCuriousProject)
* [OSINT in 5 hours](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qwA6MmbeGNo&ab_channel=TheCyberMentor)
* [Top 25 OSINT Tools](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xHBDRIRH-FY&list=PLkFsXKDkq5t_aa76FwiaR8D7uMt5MvEAb&index=2&t=16s&ab_channel=GeraldAuger%2CPhD-SimplyCyber)
* [OSINT Training Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZDtQ0bapigg&list=PLkFsXKDkq5t_aa76FwiaR8D7uMt5MvEAb&index=10&ab_channel=CIPCyber)
### With OSINT you can:
* **Investigate:** OSINT can be used to gather information about individuals, organizations, or events to aid in investigations, background checks, or due diligence processes.

* **Monitor Online Presence:** OSINT enables monitoring of online platforms, social media accounts, and websites to track public sentiment, identify trends, or detect potential threats.

* **Assess Security Risks:** OSINT helps in identifying vulnerabilities, potential risks, or threats by analyzing publicly available data and uncovering potential security gaps.

* **Competitive Intelligence:** OSINT can be used to gather information about competitors, their products, strategies, and market positioning to gain a competitive edge.

* **Reputation Management:** OSINT allows monitoring and managing online reputation by tracking mentions, reviews, or discussions about individuals or organizations.

* **Trend Analysis:** By analyzing publicly available data, OSINT can help identify emerging trends, public opinions, or shifts in public sentiment.

* **Disaster Response:** OSINT aids in gathering information during natural disasters or emergencies to assess the impact, track resources, and coordinate response efforts.

* **Geospatial Analysis:** OSINT data can be used to analyze geographic locations, map trends, or detect patterns, assisting in urban planning, transportation, or disaster management.

These are just a few examples of how OSINT can be utilized. The flexibility and broad scope of OSINT make it a valuable tool across various domains, including intelligence, security, business, research, and more.

### Top OSINT tools:

* **OSINT Framework:** This is a website directory of data discovery and gathering tools for almost any kind of source or platform.

* **Maltego:** This tool is used for investigations via Java graphs and is one of the most popular OSINT tools out there.

* **Mitaka:** Allows users to gather, process, and visualize information from various sources for intelligence and investigation purposes.

* **SpiderFoot:** An open-source intelligence automation tool that collects and analyzes data from different sources to create a comprehensive profile of a target entity.

* **Spyse:** Is an online platform that offers comprehensive cybersecurity intelligence, providing users with access to a wide range of data and tools to assess and monitor security risks.

* **Intelligence X:** Is a search engine and data platform that allows users to access and analyze a vast amount of collected information, including leaked data, public databases, and other valuable sources.

* **DarkSearch:** is a search engine specifically designed to crawl and index content from the dark web, providing users with a means to search for information that is not readily accessible through traditional search engines.

* **grep.app:** Is an online tool that allows users to search and analyze code snippets from various programming languages, making it easier to find specific code patterns or examples quickly.

* **Recon-ng:** This tool is used for web reconnaissance and information gathering

* **TheHarvester:** A tool used for gathering email addresses, subdomains, and other information associated with a target domain by leveraging search engines, public sources, and social media.

* **Shodan:** A search engine for internet-connected devices that allows users to discover open ports, vulnerable systems, and gain insights into the global network landscape.

* **Metagoofil:** A tool used for extracting metadata from various file types, such as documents, images, and videos, allowing users to gather valuable information about a target, including author names, email addresses, software versions, and other details.

* **SpiderFoot:** An open-source intelligence automation tool that collects and analyzes data from different sources to create a comprehensive profile of a target entity.

* **Babel X:** This international search system uses AI to cross language barriers for any search term.


### GitGub OSINT Tools:
* [Blackbird](https://github.com/p1ngul1n0/blackbird)
* [Valhalla](https://github.com/valhalla/valhalla)