---
title: Dark Web
date: 2023-05-18 10:42:00 -500
categories: [cybersecurity, network security, malware]
tags: [infosec, datasecurity, itsecurity, cyberdefense, internetsecurity, Darweb, Anonymity, Tor, Proxychains] # TAG names should be lowercase
---

### What is the Dark Web?
The dark web is a part of the internet that is intentionally hidden and requires special software or authorization to access. It is often associated with illegal activities and anonymity as it provides a platform for illicit trade, illegal marketplaces, and various forms of cybercrime.

### Tor Browser
Tor browser is a web browser that allows users to access the internet anonymously by using the Tor network. Tor stands for "The Onion Router." It routes internet traffic through a worldwide network of volunteer-operated servers, encrypting the data multiple times in layers hence the onion analogy to ensure privacy and anonymity.

### The Onion Router:
The Onion Router TOR is a network technology that enables anonymous communication over the internet. It works by encrypting and routing internet traffic through a series of volunteer-operated servers called Tor nodes or relays. These relays are distributed worldwide, and each layer of encryption is peeled off at each node, hence the "onion" analogy.

The TOR network is primarily used to access the dark web, a part of the internet that is intentionally hidden and requires special software (like the Tor browser) to access. However, it's important to note that TOR can also be used for general web browsing, providing users with enhanced privacy and anonymity.

### Installing Tor Browser in Kali Linux:
Tor Browser is a popular web browser that is available in Kali Linux. To install Tor Browser, run the following command:
 
Update kali linux first:
```bash
sudo apt update
```
Install Tor Browser:
```bash
sudo apt install tor
```
Once the installation is completed, start the Tor service:
```bash
sudo systemctl start tor
```
To verify that Tor is running:
```bash
sudo systemctl status
```
### What is proxychains?
Proxychains is a tool that allows you to run applications or commands through a proxy server. It enables you to redirect network connections from your computer to a proxy server, adding an extra layer of anonymity and security.

Proxychains supports various types of proxy servers, such as HTTP, SOCKS4, and SOCKS5. By configuring the Proxychains settings, you can specify the proxy server address, port, and other options to customize your proxy connection.

### Installing Proxychains:
```bash
sudo apt install proxychains
```
Once the installation is completed, configure Proxychains:
```bash
sudo nano /etc/proxychains.conf
```
In the configurattion file, locate "*dynamic_chain*" Uncomment the line, by removing the '#'

If you need to use a proxy server, locate the "*ProxyList*"
Uncomment the relevant line and specify your proxy server's IP address, port, and proxy type (e.g., HTTP, SOCKS4, or SOCKS5).
```bash
[ProxyList]
# add proxy here ...
# meanwile
# defaults set to "tor"
socks4  127.0.0.1 9050
socks5  127.0.0.1 9050
```
Make sure the Tor Browser is active. Proxy will run over the Tor Browser.

Making sure is working properly:
```bash
proxychains ping example.com
```
By following these steps and customizing the Proxychains configuration file, you can set up and use Proxychains in Kali Linux to route your network connections through a proxy server.

Dark Web sites:

* Hidden Wiki - TheHiddenWiki.org
* darknetone.com
* Dark.fail

---

### ⚠️ Warning regarding the dark web:

The dark web presents significant risks and should be approached with extreme caution. It harbors illegal activities, such as drug trafficking, weapons sales, and hacking forums. Engaging with these activities can lead to serious legal consequences. The dark web is also a breeding ground for scams, fraud, and harmful content, including explicit material and disturbing imagery. Anonymity on the dark web is not foolproof, and privacy breaches can occur. Malware and viruses are prevalent, posing threats to your device's security. Exercise utmost care, prioritize your safety, and refrain from accessing the dark web unless you possess the necessary knowledge and have legitimate reasons.

---


